Situations are said to be turning from bad to worse at the Liberia National Police over demands by Police officers for salary and benefits with the latest complaint coming from the LNP Special Cops.

Members of the Special Cops, who are currently under training at the National Police Training Academy in Paynesville, are reportedly left in the cold by LNP authorities with respect to salary.

The Special Cops is a crack program initiated by the Office of President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf for college graduates interested in joining the police force to get training in preparation for enlistment to bring some transformation into the Liberia National Police.

Initially, the training was intended for three months and was expected to have ended last October but the recruits are still awaiting graduation and five months salary arrears owed them by the government. According to reports, since last December 2012, members of the Special Cops have not received the US$150 monthly salary promised them, while on the base.

According to some aggrieved Special Cops recruits, each time they engaged the authorities on the issue, they are told there is no money in the police budget for special cops. Police spokesman Sam Collins could not comment on the issue as he promised to first contact his bosses. But up to press time last night, Sam did not return call.

Meanwhile, planned demonstrations by some members of the Liberia National Police (LNP) for retroactive salary increment promised the security apparatus by President Johnson- Sirleaf are said to be on course despite news that authorities of the LNP have begun paying police officers for March, 2013 without the US$25 retroactive increment as the President directed.

Police officers are said not to be happy with their bosses for the one month salary. Some of the aggrieved officers confided in this paper that they have started receiving text messages from the bank on their mobile phones that salary for March is ready, but no mention of the US$25 increment and the retroactive. They accused Police Director Chris Massaquoi and his team of only trying to save face by covering up with the March salary.

However, in reaction police spokesman Sam Collins said those men having secret meetings around Monrovia as it is alleged are not police officers. He noted that the police are professional people who channel their problems through the appropriate authority if they have any.

Speaking to the new Dawn via mobile phone last week, he noted that no police officer will be a part of any demonstrations. He however noted that a police bulletin has been released for the payment of retroactive salary increment.

Though he did not specify as to when the officers will be paid, Sam said authorities of the police are doing everything humanly possible to pay the police their benefits.