Nairobi Kenya — A message posted on Facebook and Twitter by the Chief Justice Willy Mutunga on Sunday, a day after he led a six judge bench in issuing a decision on an election petition filed by Prime Minister Raila Odinga sparked mixed reactions from his followers on the page.

The verdict that upheld the declaration of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Uhuru Kenyatta as the president-elect was diversely received by supporters of the leading politicians across the country.

Mutunga's message said the Supreme Court performs its duty to serve justice to Kenyans; and after it was posted, it was followed by various reactions with some commending the court while others held an opposing view.

The message which was his first after the March 30 ruling reads "‏@WMutunga:The Supreme Court has neither friends nor enemies among Kenyans. It just cares about justice for all Kenyans."

"That was the best judgment delivered in the history of Kenya(unanimously). Lets continue working," Zakheem Rajan wrote on his page.

For the case of Martina Mutunga, the message brought realism of the ruling to him, " Chief Justice, I have been in denial for weeks ,now I need some cold water on my face and a slap to wake up to reality. I need to work on my heart."

However some urged their fellow Kenyans to support the new government despite the ruling not favouring their preferred person.

"Thank you Hon. Chief Justice, the ruling though not in my candidates favour, painful as it sounded, but I would sincerely say, I have so much confidence in you. You are taking the Kenyan Judiciary to great heights," Wenda Ambasa wrote.

Ambasa urged Kenyans to respect the court ruling as it was a six Judge findings following intensive deliberations. "This was not a choice that you could have made on your own, the Supreme Court delivered the ruling. The rest remains in the hands of the Lord, long live Kenya."

The judgement gave a green light for the swearing of the President -elect on April 9 to become Kenya's fourth president.

The President-elect who issued a statement a few hours after the ruling, urged Kenyans to unite and work together irrespective of their political stands.

"I dedicate myself to do everything I can to improve the country and change the lives of all Kenyans while ensuring all Kenyans are united," Kenyatta said.

The President-elect said there were no losers and winners in Kenya, "because we are all a nation that must move beyond politics."