Even after relinquishing leadership of the Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), Dr Kizza Besigye continues to command huge political space as his actions and views attract President Yoweri Museveni and the State's interest. The Independent's Julius Odeke spoke to him about the political environment in Uganda and his persecution.

Why does police keep harassing you?

It is because police is acting on instructions of the political authorities who consider me as an enemy that should be decimated or removed.

Our police is no longer functioning as a national police force as mandated by the constitution of the Republic of Uganda, to ensure law and order, its functioning as a partisan force for regime protection not for public order.

So, they would like to make it difficult as possible for anybody to oppose government and they have developed the militia to attack opposition leaders.

If you go to the Kawempe DPC's office there is President Museveni's campaign poster complete with NRM colours and with writings that 'Museveni Pakalast'. So they see themselves as an extension of NRM political party.

Recently there was a transition in FDC but your successor Gen Muntu is not affected. The focus remains on you. What could be the reason?

As I have said, what the police do is to curb the activities they consider are injurious to NRM, activities that undermine and weaken NRM is what they curb. I am sure if Muntu started those activities they will certainly deal with Muntu much as they deal with me.

Is it good publicity for FDC when you are arrested?

Nobody wants to be arrested, so it cannot be something that we hope to benefit from. But quite obviously, when you keep on arresting people and you are not charging them in courts of law for any offence, then people are bound to question whether what you are doing is not just persecution.

In fact, even for those cases where I have been taken to court which are quite many, they have always been dismissed without need for me to defend myself. They are trumped up charges including rape, treason.

Whenever you are arrested, police says your activities disrupt people's businesses in town. Yet sometimes you are let free to move in town, what happens?

That question should be appropriately put to the police. What happens when they do not come to interfere with me? Nothing. All the chaos that happens in town is created by police itself. So what they say saying is definitely nonsense.

How have those arrests affected you?

I have not only been arrested, I have been shot, doused with chemicals many times; I have been detained in solitary confinement. We suspect it may be for purposes of introducing some harmful substances in that environment.

I don't know what kinds of effects it has on my health, and it's quite early to tell because quite obviously the strategy of government will not be to eliminate me in the open. I think they would want to use measures that will cripple me slowly.

Is there any political gain from those arrests?