DURBAN, South Africa (MarketWatch) — The leaders of China, Brazil, Russia, India and South Africa pledged last week to increase cooperation to achieve the twin goals of faster growth and reforms in global governance. Collectively, the five BRICS nations account for 42% of world population, 20% of output, and nearly all of current growth in the global economy.

It was the fifth annual summit of the BRICS nations, which comprise the fastest growing emerging markets. At China’s urging South Africa, a much smaller economy that is seen as a gateway to resource-rich Africa, was admitted to the group two years ago.

Vladimir Putin, the Russian president and host of this year’s G-20 global economic summit in September, said the BRICS are coordinating their positions on investment, mining, and combating the drug trade. China’s new leader Xi Jinping stopped in Moscow en route to Durban and called for closer economic links between China and Russia.

The leaders at Durban launched formal negotiations on a BRICS development bank, even though they could not agree on its voting structure and operational base. Cash-rich China will be a major player and its headquarters is likely to be in Shanghai. The BRICS bank is intended to complement the much larger World Bank and be active in infrastructure projects, particularly in Africa.

The two biggest BRICS economies, China and Brazil, are creating a $30 billion fund that will finance bilateral trade in their own currencies. The BRICS are also setting up a $100 billion contingency reserve arrangement to provide mutual assistance in case of financial emergencies.

Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff said the bloc wants to boost its influence in the G-20 and in particular increase its voting power in the International Monetary Fund. “Changing the IMF,” she said, “is an urgent task that will insure its legitimacy.” Currently the BRICS nations account for only 12% of the votes in the financial agency where Western Europe, North America and Japan are dominant.

The Durban summit also created a five-nation business council that will meet twice a year to expand business ties and promote exchanges between academics and think tanks. Business leaders from each nation accompanied their leaders to Durban.

Sven Grimm, the head of the Center for Chinese Studies at South Africa’s Stellenbosch University, said the BRICS represent the new multi-polar world. “They are pressing for a new balance of power,” he says. Grimm regards China as the bloc’s critical player, noting that China has become Africa’s biggest investor and trading partner.

Before arriving in Durban, Xi stopped in Tanzania and unveiled $15 billion of investments and aid. His final stop was in Congo Brazzaville, where China is building a 300-mile highway, a power plant and developing the oil sector.

To this observer of a score of G-7, G-8 and G-20 summits over the decades, the BRICS have the look and feel of at least short-term viability. A grouping of these disparate nations — one a fallen super-power, one still nominally communist, two who waged war against each other — would have been unthinkable 20 years ago.

And yet today they find that many of their interests converge. Except for China they feel aggrieved, unrecognized for what they have achieved. Thanks to Jim O’Neill of Goldman Sachs who coined the BRIC acronym, they see themselves as champions for what used to be called the third world.

Inevitably, the BRICS agenda is likely to be confined to economic matters. As a Brazilian diplomat observed, “we can’t discuss human rights, as Russia and China won’t allow it.”

But here in Durban are the accoutrements of a summit club. At King Shaka airport are the 747s that brought the Indian and Chinese delegations, the two large planes that transported the Russians, and the more modest Airbus 320 of the Brazilians.

And yet to a Western reporter, there are clear reminders that this is no ordinary economic summit.

Aside from a few copies of China Daily, the only newspaper available to the 4,000 or so in this seaport city’s conference hall was the New Age, a pro-government daily launched to counter a vigorous South African media that daily groans with tales of official wrong-doing. At a meeting of so-called captains of industry, few if any of the leading South African companies were represented, presumably because they are too white or insufficiently supportive of government.

At what was called a press conference of the leaders no questions were permitted. The heads of state or government merely read out prepared statements taking seven to 12 minutes each to do so. Alone among the leaders, Brazil’s Rousseff afterwards came down from the dais to meet with waiting reporters.