"You cannot decree a recovery," noted Serge-Alain Yabouet-Bazoly, a former minister and legal advisor for the Groupement Interprofessionnel de Centrafrique (GICA), one of two employer federations in the country.

The new national unity government has pledged to resume administrative services on Tuesday, 10 days after the capital Bangui fell to rebels from the Seleka coalition who ousted president Francois Bozize.

Sporadic looting in the capital continues however, and companies have paid a high price in a country of five million people that was already one of the poorest in the world owing to repeated rebellions and corruption that made it hard to develop mineral deposits and other natural resources.

In December, GICA estimated the economic cost of the Seleka uprising, which was then in its early stages, at 27 billion CFA francs ($A5.09 million) and "this figure has probably mushroomed since", estimated GICA president Patrick De Jean.

The federation comprises 23 large companies that account for 45 per cent of the country's local tax revenues, or roughly 130 billion CFA francs.

The state's coffers are now empty however.

"As things stand now, it is impossible to get things going again. Before anything else you have to reestablish security," De Jean noted.

"Work sites must be safe so that people return to their jobs, and neighbourhoods must be safe so that they do not fear leaving families alone at home. For now those conditions have not been met," he added.

Companies have also been subjected to racketeering by Seleka rebels, and De Jean acknowledged having to pay 20 million CFA francs to Seleka officers to protect his business, the Centrafrican Cigarette Society (Socaci), as the capital was being sacked.

"The ones who are robbing you offer to protect you," he said.

Big companies have banded together meanwhile and reached an agreement with Chadian soldiers who are part of the international force Fomac, paying 400,000 CFA francs per soldier for protection until the crisis is resolved.

Small companies have been hit even harder, and De Jean warned that "there will be many bankruptcies".